  until 5, at least I have 30, so I'll take as long as you need it. You want to close the door with a smile? Yeah. OK, so I just picked RIT because, like, I used to go to a lot of your guys' events and then I just kind of, like, like, I figured out that, like, no one really knows a lot, a bunch about RHA. Like, you guys do a lot of stuff, like, I researched a little and, like, all these events you guys do, but, like, no one really knows, like, who's done them and, like, how it's managed and all of that. Um, and you guys have, like, a lot of positions where, like, everyone can, like, apply for it and stuff, but I feel like nobody really knows a lot, you know. Um, so, yeah, how would you describe what RHA is about? That's a very good question, because my freshman year, I was, I didn't know the answer to that either, and it took me quite a while to really figure it out. But I think you can boil it down to a very simple system, and the best way to describe it is that, every college that has students living on campus divides their housing into two different departments. It's called a bifurcated system. There are the people who run the housing, you know, they manage your contracts, your leases, they keep the buildings up to shape, they manage your janitorial staff, your lease agreements, your packages when they get checked in, checked out. That's all at UCR called housing services. The other half of the bifurcated system at UCR is called residential life, and residential life is responsible for every interaction with the resident. So, um, everything from disciplinary action when people get rid of them for, you know, smoking or drinking the dorms, to throwing events for residents, to, uh, basically making sure their well-being is kept up to safe, doing nightly safety patrols, that's what the RHA is on duty do. That's all residential life. Some universities, it's one in the same department, but here it's called bifurcated system at two departments. So, residential life is broken up into a number of different sections, and these different sections are each responsible for different things. The two largest sections being the live-inside. The live-inside is responsible for managing the RHAs on duty. Now, they keep track of rounds every night, they keep track of disciplinary actions, basically the reports that are filed, safety checks, everything regarding the actual responsibilities of the job. The other half of it's called the engagement side. The engagement division is responsible for engaging with the residents, and that's primarily done in California through programming. So, basically programming is, in high school, they're commonly referred to as events, and in college we call them programs. I don't know why, but we basically throw programs to interact with residents, get to know the better-provided needs of the community and needs and stuff like that. The programming side of things are all, it's called the engagement branch, but the engagement branch broken into a number of different groups. We have the paces, like the PAs, you probably heard of them, the pairs, the PAs, programming advisors for residential, what is it, the residential experiences, that's pairs, we have paces, program advisors of community experiences or community engagement. Do you have like a PA living in your building? You have an RA and a PA probably, right? Yeah, I haven't heard of the PA. But that's what your PA is, but those are different groups of the PAs, and outside of those PAs, the other group is leadership. There are three leadership organizations within the engagement side of residential life. So you have residential life, engagement, leadership, which is now broken into three subcategories, which are called CARA, Campus Apartments Residence Association, NRHH, the National Residence Hall Honorary, and RHA, Residence Halls Association. So we are under the leadership branch of the engagement branch of the Department of Residential Life, technically under the division of student affairs that you want to know even higher. That's where RHA falls. So we are responsible for two things. One, and our most important goal is creating leadership opportunities for residents. Anyone who lives in Residence Hall are able to provide leadership opportunities, teaching people how to be leaders, how to work in these educational systems to host events, interact with residents, basically training the leaders of the future, and number two, interacting with residents. And our primary goal is called community engagement. Our goal is to engage with the community, meet their needs, their wants, their desires, to basically promote the residential experience of someone living on a college campus. We do programming, basically host events that are targeted towards different communities. So sometimes we'll do big events that are, like concerts and things like that, that all residents have come to, other times we'll do programs for a certain community. Like in AI, when we say that there's a need for a certain resource or something like that, we'll do a mental wellness program or something like that. So we host these different events and they provide these leadership opportunities, but that pretty much sums up what the Residence Hall Association is. Okay, great. So like you said, they do create leadership opportunities. So since you are one of those, since you are a leader, how would you explain your position and role as the Executive President of RHA? Yeah, absolutely. So RHA consists of, at any given time, somewhere between about 100 and 150 people. And they're not all the same rank, but that is the, everyone who is cumulatively involved in the program at any given time. Somewhere between 100 and 150 people consist of executive board positions, chairs, assistants, and senators. Those are the four basically ranks that we have. Of those 100 to 150, there are 50, even 50, that are part of the RHA cabinet. The RHA cabinet is responsible for managing our government documents, planning big events. And the cabinet consists of, you know, people from every community. And that cabinet is basically the empowering body of our RHA. In that cabinet, there are 10 people which make up the Executive Cabinet. Those are myself, the Executive President, five building presidents, and four vice presidents, of which I oversee those nine and those nine oversee the other 40, of which those 40 oversee the other 110. And in that Executive Cabinet, my goal at all times, or my job, is to make sure that the other nine are given the resources that they need to be able to perform their job, as well as make sure that all 10 of us are working to constantly be meeting certain goals and objectives. And not only just, you know, having good programs and stuff like that, but basically trying to grow the association over the years. Really keep making it grow, making sure that we're meeting our long-term objectives of increased engagement, increased numbers, more opportunities, and different things like that. And so at any given point in time, I like to say I'm kind of doing nine different jobs at once, because I'm constantly balancing back and forth between the other nine positions. An Executive President, just like the President of any company, doesn't have their own assignments, right? Their assignments is to make sure that the people who work directly underneath them are fully trained, developed, and they know exactly what they're doing, and they are all staying on task, working towards our final objectives. So in a way, I kind of have nine jobs, right? But that's basically what I'm doing. I oversee those nine, and then it kind of trickles down. But every once in a while, I do have to interact all the time, actually, with people who are either in the Cabinet or in one of our basically Senator positions. I interact with them a lot at different events, programs, and stuff like that. So I think, like I said, I think I have the best job on campus because, you know, they pick me to host events, work with people, interact with people, and the best part of my job is I get to meet new people every day, right? I've gotten to meet some really awesome people over the last two years. And one of those interesting things about working residential life and being an Archive President is that every year, your Cabinet and your entire board is mostly consisted of new incoming freshmen, which is crazy because it means I get a whole new group of people every year. Every year, only about five or 10% of people actually return because you can only be part of it if you're still living in the residence halls. And most residence halls are freshmen only. Yeah, everyone moves out after the first year. So every year it's a whole new staff. So one of the most complicated parts of my job is training because every year I have to start with an entire group of people who know absolutely nothing and very quickly get them up to speed and get them trained to know what to do. Because as I learned in the past, if you don't do that properly, by the time people understand what to do, the year's almost over. So we work really hard during fall quarter to work on our, we do training over the summer, we do training during the fall, basically implement people and training them along the way. Okay. So for how long have you been the RHA president? I became the RHA president in April or May of 2023. So about nine or ten months. So were you like in the RHA before that or do you? I've been in the RHA now for almost three years. Okay. Yeah. So how was your journey like? So when I came in, I joined as a chair for one of those 50 counter positions. I was the chair of facilities for Petland Hills. And I had a wonderful experience. I got to help throw lots of different events, worked on facilities, proposals. It was really fun. At the end of the year I decided I wanted to run for a different position. And so I ran to be a building president of Glenmore. And I didn't get it. Instead I was offered building president of Petland Hills. I declined the position. I then ran for vice president of technology. I didn't get it. I was offered vice president of communications. So at that point I was like, well, I'm probably never gonna get what I want. I'm gonna take it. So I took vice president of communications. So I started my first quarter of sophomore year as the vice president of communications. Not even a couple of weeks into summer training. The Petland Hills building president quit. And they were looking for someone to fill it. And a lot of people applied. I was also one who applied. I decided I wanted to go back to being building president and I won. And so I served all my sophomore years as the building president of Petland Hills. After being that building president towards the end of my freshman year, I ran. I decided I wanted to run to be executive president. So I did. I applied. And it was me versus one other person and I had won. I won the election. So I would have started my term last quarter. You know, and at this point I would have been president for about five months or so, four or five months. However, at the end of last year, our executive president resigned towards the end of the year with still a couple of months left in the term. And so everyone voted to implement me as the president. So I've been the president for the end of last year plus the duration of this year so far. And so that's how I got to where I am today. But I started as a chair of facilities with the vice president of communications, building president of Petland Hills, executive president. I've been there ever since. Okay, that's kind of a journey. It is. It's been a follow-up. What inspired you to join RHA in the first place like years ago? I was in my dorm freshman year. And it was the first quarter of my freshman year. And I don't know, maybe about week three or four, you know, a couple weeks in a year, a flyer went up in my building and said that Petland Hills Council is recruiting chair positions, chair facilities, chair of programming, and chair of publicity. And I looked at the list and said, that seems really interesting. Chair of facilities seems really interesting to me. So I applied. About a week later, I got an interview. I didn't know too much later that actually three or four people applied, but they selected me. And that's how I got in. And I've been in the program ever since. That's great. Do you know why they selected you over other people for every single position you've been in? About a year later, they told me that I had a better interview. Like special or just like? No, I think I just got really lucky. You know, if that flyer would have never run up in the third floor of my dorm freshman year, it would have never been here. I used to live in building E of Petland Hills. And it was my favorite building ever. I go back there all the time just to think about, I had a great time freshman year of college, but that's truly what got me in the program. Changed it forever. Are you like aware of the history of RHA and like how everything started and how these departments like came to life and everything? More than most people. Okay. I know all the stories, what do you want? I just want to know in like a brief description. Where RHA came from? Yeah, like was it always just a thing? Or were these departments like always a thing? Or did someone go like, hey, we should have departments or we should do this? So the departments have changed hundreds of times since the founding ECR of 1954. They come from bifurcated systems to single entry systems to housing only system back to bifurcated. And I'll just handle through the chancellors at the time of upper administration of ECR. But RHA is one of the few things that ECR has basically stayed the same since the beginning. RHA was founded at UCR in the year 1959. UCR opened in 1954. It used to be the Citrus Research Experiment Station and that was about it. Very blank campus. There was no campus. It was just a small research station. You had a farm and a stable. Now it's a restaurant called The Barn. Very bland campus. In 1959 UCR opened its first on-campus dormitory called Aberdeen and Burness. Built right there in the North Eastern Quadrant of Campus. Housed almost a thousand residents, about 800-something residents. And they opened this new dorm and the same year that the dorm opened they founded the Resident Halls Association. It was the group that was designed to advocate for the residents and voice the experience of the residents to upper administration. RHA is a program that almost every college across the country has. Back in 1954 an organization in the United States was founded called NUCR, N-A-C-U-R-H. It stands for the National Affiliate of College and University Residence Halls. Back then it didn't used to have the N. It used to be called UF-CUR, the Affiliate of College University. And basically what NUCR was is this organization where every college would send delegates to and they would all talk amongst themselves and come up with different policies and work to advocate for different groups. Basically so every college would have an idea of what living in the residence halls was like at other universities and so they could all try to make things better and strive for greatness and things like that. It was an amazing association and in 1954 this association was founded. Five years after its founding UCR founded its RHA and joined the National Affiliate of College and University Residence Halls. NUCR is now this multi-international conglomerate organization. You have universities and colleges from Canada, Mexico, the United States, other nations as well and basically the RHA at UCR has been part of NUCR ever since. RHA, UCR was founded about five years after the founding of UCR in 1959 with AI and every time UCR built a dormitory since then they added a new council. So we now have five councils, AI, Aberdeen, Bernays, Dundee, Gunmore, Petland Hills, and Lothian. There is the subsidiary of RHA called CAR after the Canada's Appartments Residence Association and that consists of Obann, Falkirk, the Plaza, Stonehaven, and Banneper and then NRHH which works in all those communities. And about ten years ago RHA and CAR used to be the same thing but a lot of people advocated in the campus apartments that they weren't being treated as fairness residents. They had different needs than residents. Here we have meal plans, there they don't. Here our rent rates are much higher, they're much lower. Here engagements are a lot higher. Our rent rates are much higher, they're much lower. Here engagements are a lot higher, primarily freshmen there with a lot of grad students who are in their late 20s and 30s. And so RHA officially separated into RHA and CAR which are now two different organizations back about ten or twelve years ago. And that's where RHA is sitting. Okay, that's great. So what do you think about RHA being a hidden gem on campus and like any like really cool milestones that you guys have reached? I think one of the most hidden things about RHA that most people don't know is that everyone knows UCR has two mascots, Scotty the Bear and Norman the Orange. Most people don't know that Norman the Orange is owned, managed, and operated by RHA. When people want to book Scotty an event they go to Student Light and people want to book Norman an event. They're usually really surprised to see that they have to go to the residence halls association. But Norm the Naval was crowned the mascot back in the year, let's think, 2000. He was created in 2000. He's about to turn 18 this year. So we're 17, sorry. So what's 17 years ago from 2024? That would have been 2007, something like that. Let's see. I'm curious now. 2007. Norm the Naval was the mascot brought in 2007 and he's been around ever since. And he's an orange, Norm the Naval. And the residence halls association gets to manage him. So we have some really cool opportunities. We get to bring out ASPB events. We get to bring him out to different sporting games, things like that. And it's probably one of the most hidden things because most people think that that's managed by the inverse. No, it's actually managed by RHA. And the second thing is that we actually get a lot of ability to do things because we are mostly on a 100% student run. We do not have a staff supervisor. We have professional staff advisors that help us buy things and work on things, but we are totally student managed. We are student run. So any student is allowed to make their way up the ranks and petition with legislation, stuff like that. And probably the coolest thing is that anyone can join. It's very easy for someone to get involved. And look at me. I went from a freshman in the dorms to now the executive president of RHA and they pay for my housing, they pay for my rent, my meal plan, and I get to do a lot of really amazing work. And a lot of what we do is community service based too when we work with RHA. So we get to do some awesome things. But let's say that probably the most interesting things is that anyone is able to join and work their way up. And that some of the things we get to be involved in with campus, campus life and mascot, most people don't even know that we get to do that. It's really cool that we do get to do that. So what does a typical week in the RHA look like with all the members working on there? Great question. One of my leadership rules that I use in my life is I hate meetings. I think meetings are useless. I believe in workshops, like thought sessions, basically any sort of environment where I could people get together, like a think room where people are working together to come up with ideas or brainstorming sessions. And they get together and actually work on something like a workshop. But I think meetings are useless. People are like, oh, let's have a meeting. Oh, I'm busy today. I can't come. I have a meeting. I hate meetings. I don't like that word. I don't really use it. But an RHA is the one place they make me use. Anyways, I have to preface with that because the week mostly consists of a couple of meetings that happen every week. And the week starts for RHA, we start on Monday. Monday night, we have our cabinet meetings. And the cabinet meetings has been all those 50 people in the cabinet get together, talk about things, load on things, provide updates to each other. That goes from eight to nine o'clock Monday nights, then at nine o'clock, the five different councils separate and go off to their own communities to meet with their own residents from nine to 10. Every other week on Mondays, prior to the calendar meeting at seven o'clock, we have our executive cabinet meeting. That's one of the 10 executive board members talk with each other, executive cabinet members. Throughout the week, each team also meets once on their own. So the four vice presidents meet with their staff once a week on their own, most of which meet two to day or Wednesday night. And then by the time we hit Thursday nights, that's usually our biggest program. So most of our events are hosted on Thursday night, sometimes Wednesday nights or Tuesday, but most of them are Thursday. So by the time we hit the middle of the week, end of the week, there's usually some programs. So I will go around to the different communities programs, we kind of all go and help one another out of programs. But that usually happens Thursday night. And then Friday, we'll usually see people back in the office cleaning up from whatever events they had in the week, packing everything up and stuff like that. The one other thing to mention is that every elected position RHA holds office hours on Monday. So the week starts really strong from Monday. We have our office hours and our E-CAB meetings, then our cabinet meetings and then our council meetings. And then we have a couple of inter department meetings on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, program on Thursdays, clean up on Fridays and that wraps up the week in the RHA. Busy week. Yeah. Very. So I noticed that the RHA office in the closet is like under Penline, under Ryan and G. Well like how long has it been in there? Like do you guys just get shifted or was it just always just a thing? So the RHA office was put in Penline when Penline was constructed. Penline was built in two parts, Penline North and Penline South. Penline South was actually built first. They later about a couple years later built Penline North. RHA offices in Penline South. Now we can look at what your Penline South was built, but I believe it was in the later 90s. It was like, I know it was for a fact, I know for a fact Penline South was built in the 90s. I can't remember if it was 92, 95, 97, but I know the RHA office came in existence in Penline Hills back in the 90s. And so ever since then, it's been right there in Penline Hills in the building G. Room G 102, I think, 102. Yeah. Closet, I believe, I have no idea how it came out. Probably came a couple years later. I believe that used to be a facilities closet, but the RHA office has been there for at least two decades, that's for sure. Two and a half at least. I mean considering the amount of work that goes down, the office is like so tiny and it's just like so secluded and hidden. Well, you know. The funny thing is prior to Penline being built, I don't know what year it was, but once again in the 90s. RHA did have an office 40 years before. It was open in 1959 all the way until the 90s. And that office was in the basement of AI. And it's in a room that used to be called, it was the RHA office, they didn't used to call it the RHA office, they called it the RHA TV room. Wow, it was called RHA TV room. For about 30 years, from about the 60s through the 70s, 80s, and 90s, there was a program that RHA did at UCR, where cable television was available to students, right? They had these cut cables in the wall they plug your TV in, in their dorm. But one of the channels, I think it was channel three, was the RHA channel. And the rest of it tuned into the RHA channel on the watch whenever it was playing. So RHA would have someone 24-7 in the RHA TV room choosing what to play. They would play cool movies, do releases, movies people would students would request, things like that. In the 90s when they moved out of AI, I believe they continued the program for a couple more years in the early 2000s, and then eventually probably 2000, I think it was the early 2000s, you know, the 7, 8, 9, somewhere in the way, they cancelled the program, did a way of fixing the watch's TV anywhere. But that is why the office used to be in the basement of AI. So now that that's the TV room doesn't exist or all that, do you guys think you should have like another more accessible, like more visible office that everyone notices so you guys don't go like a notice doesn't hit a gem? I totally think so. I'm biased, right? I've always wanted a bigger office on the top floor, like Glenmore or something like that. But I'm really happy for the office space that we do have because from an administrative standpoint, getting an office space on campus is really difficult. It costs the campus a lot of money because they pay for your utilities, they pay taxes on the land, they pay for your water, electricity, all the internet can and you know when they add it up it's an expensive office space and the fact that they get it to us for free is really nice and amazing. It is just a little shed or a little home wall, but it is I don't know if you've seen the NRHH office right across the way, but it's a lot smaller. You ever want to see it and I'll show you it, but the NRHH office is way smaller. It's about the size of the RJ class and maybe even less. So I am very grateful for what we do have. I do think eventually that if RJ continues to grow, we will be petitioning for a larger office space and a more commercial place, but for now I will say that it's one of the things that we are super grateful to have because getting an office space on campus is really, really tough today. And there's a lot of word in it that you don't get an office space in some room, but I appreciate what you're saying. Yeah, I think that's kind of it. I just wanted to, just like any other few things you want to add about RJ being a hidden gem. Yeah. I think a lot of people underestimate what we're able to do because we're the people that brought lamp posts in the Petman Hill. Ten years ago, Petman Hills didn't have those lamps, those street lamps. We brought those there. Dundee didn't used to have an Amazon lock. We brought that there. Dundee doesn't have letters on the building, so a lot of people confuse us with A and B. We're working to bring those there this year. Most of the gyms, the gymnasiums in all the communities are really old. We're working to get those renovated right now. So these are a lot of the proposals and things that we're working on, but for most of what we realize is the actual ability that we have to fix things. Fresh from my freshman year, residents came saying they had an issue with paper towels. There were no paper towels in the dorms, and they wanted to get that for certain communities. So one of the coolest things most people have no clue about is that we're able to really change things in the housing facilities here at UCR. And at most universities, students really can't do that, but we have the power to make things like that happen and advocate for that with housing services. So it's truly an honor that we get to do that, and I think that having that ability is something no one knows about. It's a hidden benefit of R&J or hidden gems, you could call it, and people don't realize how important it is and how long it's been at UCR for. We've been at UCR since 59. That's a couple weeks coming up on quite a few decades at this point, and so people don't realize how long we've been here and what we get to do, and it's really cool when we get to figure it out, because I think that once people realize it, you know, is that R&J is pretty cool. We get to do some awesome things, and we have a lot of authority as students. Most universities, they pay professional people to do this, right? We have students doing it here. It's really cool. Yeah, I mean, half of our experience is made up of what you guys do for us. Yeah. The events and all of those, like Week Zero is the one that's like most packed with all these events and stuff. Yeah, so it's mostly because of you guys. Welcome Week is hosted by Residential Life, and yeah, we work with Residential Life to make stuff like that happen. We volunteer at all these large-scale incoming. We help their movement, right? We help residents push around the blue carts. If you guys remember that, and we're in the communities to meet people. If you remember, like, we had people in law 30 when you guys went and got your keys from the parking lot. That was us right there with the big mascot, the inflatable orange. The t-shirts. The t-shirt, that was all us. A lot of that is stuff that we get to do, and so it's pretty, it's a pretty fun experience, and I've loved it ever since the day I joined. That's why I chose it as a hidden gem, because I was just talking to some friends about it, and then I was just telling how Nithi's joined the RHA, and they were like, what's RHA? And I was like, you go to their events like every other week. I know, still don't know. You don't know what else. What happens is a lot that we just get lumped under Residential Life. Yeah, we are. We are in the Residential Life, but we do a lot of different things in most areas. If we're not RAs, we are staff. We don't write people up. It's not something we do. We're students too, right? Obviously, we don't condone drinking in the halls or anything like that, but we don't write people up. We get to interact with the students, we get to know you guys, and we get to do some really fun stuff like that, and I've lived in the residence halls ever since my first day. I lived in Pentland Hills, and then I was moved to West Lothian, and then I was moved to back to Pentland Hills. Then I was moved back to West Lothian again, and now I'm living in East Lothian. So I've moved four times. I've lived in Pentland Hills and Lothian, and next year, I'm going to be relocated, or actually possibly even this quarter, I'm going to be relocated to Dundee. So by the time I finish here, my goals have lived in every one of the five communities these are, right? Checking them off slowly. A lot of people don't even know that anyone can join the RHA. Everyone's like, oh wait, there's positions other than the RA that we do. There is. A great thing is that we have elections coming up at the end of this quarter. Come in. Can you grab that for me? She goes, oh hi, come in, come in. How'd you know I was in this room? Elections are coming up for RHA next quarter. Our second president gets elected week nine of this quarter, and next quarter elections are going to be for five building presidents and four vice presidents during the week, to the week one or week two. And applications will be sent out every resident will get an email, but people are more than welcome to apply for stuff like that. And even right now we have an opening for a Dundee building president position. We're going to be filling out Monday night next week. Applications already went out, but people are able to apply up until Friday up this week. All you do is run an election Monday night, and if you win, you're going to get a 75 percent discount off your rent. Pretty good deal, isn't it? Yeah, that's great. Yeah, so this is up top.